{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang2057{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sl240\slmult1\lang9\f0\fs22\par
\b 1.1 Welcome\par
\b0\par
Ref:\par
\par
Tips & Tools for Social Learning, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://about.futurelearn.com/blog/5-tips-tools-social-learning"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://about.futurelearn.com/blog/5-tips-tools-social-learning}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 1.2 The Big Question\par
\b0\par
My overarching interest is preventive healthcare; especially primal, primordial, and primary prevention.  The aim being to prevent chronic disease or minimise the effect of infectious diseases.  These diseases, and others, have progressively debilitating & painful effects on people; and each can have a progressively ruinous  impact on the finances of people and/or countries.\par
\par
Hence, an interest is understanding the cost/benefit of public health & healthcare approaches via a mix of environmental, public health, medical, and spatio-temporal data.  Therefore, garnering more insights into the environmental, nutritional, built environment, etc., based strategies that effectively lead to healthy life times.  And subsequently expose these understandings \endash  via a variety of tools - to citizens, medical/health, local authorities so that they can make proactive health decisions.\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 1.3 A Day In The Life\b0\par
\par
Ref:\par
\par
AstraZeneca. (2020, February 18). Data science and artificial intelligence - Turning data into knowledge [Video]. Youtube. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LSGk9pVfujM"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LSGk9pVfujM}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Crivello, A. (2018, February 12). Day in the life: Data scientist [Video]. YouTube. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Wk9T_G-u4o"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Wk9T_G-u4o}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Hammer, D. (2018, March 8). Data science for the environment [Video]. YouTube. TEDxBerkley. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ph439t-kTIE"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ph439t-kTIE}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Mayo, M. (2018, April 2). A day in the life of a data scientist: Part 4. KDnuggets. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.kdnuggets.com/2018/04/day-life-data-scientist-part-4.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.kdnuggets.com/2018/04/day-life-data-scientist-part-4.html}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 1.4 Have You Got What It Takes To Be A Data Scientist\par
\b0\par
Ref:\par
\par
Robinson, E. & Nolis, J. (2020). Build a career in data science. Manning.\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 1.5 Studying at Masters Level\par
\b0\par
Ref:\par
\par
SEEC. (2021). Credit level descriptors for higher education. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://seec.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/SEEC-Credit-Level-Descriptors-2021.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://seec.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/SEEC-Credit-Level-Descriptors-2021.pdf}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Thinking\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Having a deep understanding of your specialism\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Being critical about current approaches to problems and suggesting new ones\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Combining knowledge in new ways to generate innovative and transformative solutions\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Analysing incomplete or contradictory evidence/data and arriving at a judgement\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
Acting\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Acting on your own initiative and taking responsibility for what happens\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Improving and evaluating organisational performance\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Working \ldblquote autonomously\rdblquote  or independently and adapting to new situations\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Being aware of the ethical aspects of your practice\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
Relating to others\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Working effectively as a team member or team leader\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Reflecting on your actions and adapting and changing as needed\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Maximising the value and quality of communication in your specialist area\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\par
\b 1.7 What is Data Science About?\par
\b0\par
Ref:\par
\par
Open University (2010). The joy of stats: The lady with a data visualisation. Open Learn.  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.open.edu/openlearn/body-mind/health/health-sciences/the-joy-stats-the-lady-data-visualisation"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.open.edu/openlearn/body-mind/health/health-sciences/the-joy-stats-the-lady-data-visualisation}}}\f0\fs22\par
Tukey, J. (1977). Exploratory data analysis. Pearson.\par
\par
Tukey:\par
\par
\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1 "The data may not contain the answer. The combination of some data and an aching desire for an answer does not ensure that a reasonable answer can be extracted from a given body of data."\par
\par
"Far better an approximate answer to the right question which is often vague, than an exact answer to the wrong question, which can always be made precise."\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\par
\par
\b 1.8 Coming Up With Questions\par
\b0\par
Ref:\par
\par
Why Amazon knows so much about you\par
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/extra/CLQYZENMBI/amazon-data"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/extra/CLQYZENMBI/amazon-data}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
We have seen the importance of asking questions in data science. Whether we have a particular question in mind or only a vague idea, questions need to be carefully formulated and broken down into smaller parts that can be answered using data.\par
\par
If we have a clear idea of the question we are trying to ask (and answer) then we can take a top-down approach to break the question down into smaller, simpler and more precise component questions (high-level to low-level). This will enable us to immediately get started on assembling and analysing data in order to begin to answer it.\par
\par
However, often we begin with an initial vague idea, observation, suspicion or hunch and a clear question eludes us. In this case, a bottom-up approach may help us develop a well-formulated question (low-level to high-level).\par
\par
\ul Low-level questions\ulnone\par
\par
Ultimately, questions are answered though analysis. This involves things like comparing, counting, averaging, classifying, clustering, predicting and fitting models. In order to begin such analysis you might ask low-level questions like:\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Which of these explanations \'85 is more likely?\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Has there been an increase in \'85 ?\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}How often does \'85 occur in \'85 time period?\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}What is the likely range of values for \'85 ?\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Is this group more likely to \'85 ?\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Is it possible to predict \'85 ?\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}What groups do \'85 naturally appear to fit into?\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\ul High-level questions\ulnone\par
\par
By contrast, high-level questions are often much more exploratory and open-ended. For example:\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 What factors influence what customers at \'85 are likely to purchase?\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}How can \'85 improve profitability?\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Which footballers should be considered for purchasing in the upcoming transfer window?\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Is this pandemic over yet?\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\ul Top-down and bottom-up approaches\par
\ulnone\par
The top-down approach often starts with exploratory data analysis \endash  graphical plots and basic statistical summaries such as averages and counts \endash  of existing data. In refining a complex or vague high-level question into smaller components, we may find that some aspects are discarded or the scale of the questions is constrained further.\par
\par
The bottom-up approach starts with low-level questions. In thinking about what is needed to answer the low-level questions, a general theme might emerge from the collection of questions and data available or that could be collected.\par
\par
In practice, formulating questions involves cycling around both approaches (and lots of discussion) until we converge.\par
\par
\ul Top tips\ulnone\par
\par
Refining an idea into a question is a bit like coping with writer\rquote s block. Here are some top tips.\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Try to write your idea down informally. By using words to describe the idea, you may end up with a more refined version of it.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Talk to colleagues. Often, it helps to verbalise a complex idea and get other people to ask you questions about it.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Start with attempting to answer a simpler question. Often, inspiration comes when you are working hands-on with data.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Once you think you have a question, give it a thorough critique. If you were to answer this precise question, would it really help you to answer your original idea?\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Perform a rough cost-benefit analysis. Would it cost too much (time, resource or money) to obtain all the information you need in order to answer a question that may still be quite vague, or does the potential benefit outweigh the cost?\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Who are you doing the analysis for? How will any insights be communicated to others and what form will they take?\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
Considerable effort might be required to refine an idea or observation into a question that is answerable using data. Often, this is more of an art than a science.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 1.9 Big Data, Wicked Problems\par
\b0\par
Read: Big data in digital healthcare: lessons learnt and recommendations for general practice, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nature.com/articles/s41437-020-0303-2"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.nature.com/articles/s41437-020-0303-2}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
\ul Big Data\ulnone\par
\par
The term \lquote Big Data\rquote  simply refers to data that is either high volume (there is a lot of it), high velocity (it moves very quickly), high variety (some of it might be structured but much of it is unstructured) or some combination of these. These are the \lquote three Vs\rquote  of Big Data, first described by Laney (2001). All of these aspects pose challenges in the analysis of data.\par
\par
\par
Ref:\par
\par
What is an electronic health record (EHR)?\par
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.healthit.gov/faq/what-electronic-health-record-ehr"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.healthit.gov/faq/what-electronic-health-record-ehr}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Agrawal, R. & Prabakaran, S. (2020). Big data in digital healthcare: lessons learnt and recommendations for general practice. Heredity, 124(4), 525\endash 534. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1038/s41437-020-0303-2"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://doi.org/10.1038/s41437-020-0303-2}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Laney, D. (2001). 3D Data management: Controlling data volume, velocity, and variety. META Group.\par
\par
Moore\rquote s Law (n.d.). Moore\rquote s Law: How overall processing power for computers will double every two years. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.mooreslaw.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 http://www.mooreslaw.org/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 1.11 Humans vs Computers\par
\b0\par
Ref:\par
\par
Press, G. (2014, January 31). Big data debates: Machines vs. humans. Forbes. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.forbes.com/sites/gilpress/2014/01/31/big-data-debates-machines-vs-humans/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.forbes.com/sites/gilpress/2014/01/31/big-data-debates-machines-vs-humans/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 1.13 Building Complexity in your Design\par
\b0\par
Ref:\par
\par
Guide to Flowchart Symbols, from Basic to Advanced\par
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.gliffy.com/blog/how-to-flowchart-basic-symbols-part-1-of-3"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.gliffy.com/blog/how-to-flowchart-basic-symbols-part-1-of-3}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 1.14 Avoiding Ambiguity\par
\b0\par
\par
\par
\b 1.16 Learning a New Language\par
\b0\par
Ref:\par
TIOBE. (2020). TIOBE Index for July 2020. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.wikihow.com/Unzip-a-File"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.wikihow.com/Unzip-a-File}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
\b COMMENT\par
\b0 A questions/queries about Python programming conventions.\par
\par
Within the Jupyter Cheat Sheet document, the variable naming convention is Camel Case, whilst the function naming convention is Pascale Case.  However, according to the official Python style guide, i.e., PEP 8 -- Style Guide for Python Code [{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/#function-and-variable-names"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/#function-and-variable-names}}}\f0\fs22 ] ...\par
\par
Function and Variable Names: (a) Function names should be lowercase, with words separated by underscores as necessary to improve readability.  (b) Variable names follow the same convention as function names.  (c) mixedCase is allowed only in contexts where that's already the prevailing style (e.g. threading.py), to retain backwards compatibility.\par
\par
This leads to the question, is the Cheat Sheet's style due to legacy, prevailing style, reasons?  Hence, should we abide by the official standards instead?\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 1.23 Where is your data?\par
\b0\par
\ul Who\ulnone\par
\par
There are many ethical and legal issues around data to be aware of. The main one is the [General Data Protection Regulation](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/guide-to-the-general-data-protection-regulation) (GDPR) which governs data protection, privacy and consent over personal data across the European Union from 2018. It is important to know who is the owner or controller of data, what it is permitted to be used for, when data must be anonymised prior to analysis, what will stop it being leaked and what procedures to follow if it is leaked.\par
\par
Ref:\par
\par
Code Exploit Cyber Security. (n.d.). IBM Watson cognitive artificial intelligence. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.codexploitcybersecurity.com/2018/04/ibm-watson-artificial-intelligence.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.codexploitcybersecurity.com/2018/04/ibm-watson-artificial-intelligence.html}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Information Commissioner\rquote s Office. (2018). Guide to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Gov.uk. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/guide-to-the-general-data-protection-regulation"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/guide-to-the-general-data-protection-regulation}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 2.2 Getting numerical data into Python\par
\b0\par
Ref:\par
\par
FiveThirtyEight. (2020, June 26). FiveThirtyEight / data / births [Dataset]. GitHub. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
FiveThirtyEight. (n.d.). US_births_2000-2014_SSA.csv [Dataset]. GitHub. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fivethirtyeight/data/master/births/US_births_2000-2014_SSA.csv"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fivethirtyeight/data/master/births/US_births_2000-2014_SSA.csv}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Hoffman, C. (2018). What is a CSV file, and how do I open it? How-To Geek. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.howtogeek.com/348960/what-is-a-csv-file-and-how-do-i-open-it/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.howtogeek.com/348960/what-is-a-csv-file-and-how-do-i-open-it/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 2.3 Articles & Datasets\par
\b0\par
Ref:\par
\par
FiveThirtyEight {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://fivethirtyeight.com/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://fivethirtyeight.com/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
FiveThirtyEight. (2020, June 26). FiveThirtyEight / data. GitHub. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
FiveThirtyEight. (2018, May 9). FiveThirtyEight / data / avengers [Dataset]. GitHub. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/avengers"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/avengers}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Hickey, W. (2015). Joining the Avengers is as deadly as jumping off a four-story building. FiveThirtyEight. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/avengers-death-comics-age-of-ultron/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/avengers-death-comics-age-of-ultron/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
Example: \b Airline Safety\b0\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\qc\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Discuss your thoughts below on how the data was used to support the argument in the article you chose. Include a link to the dataset in GitHub and a link to the corresponding article in your post.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 This folder contains the data behind the story \b Should Travelers Avoid Flying Airlines That Have Had Crashes in the Past? \b0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/airline-safety"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/airline-safety}}}\f0\fs22\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Data: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fivethirtyeight/data/master/airline-safety/airline-safety.csv"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fivethirtyeight/data/master/airline-safety/airline-safety.csv}}}\f0\fs22 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/should-travelers-avoid-flying-airlines-that-have-had-crashes-in-the-past/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/should-travelers-avoid-flying-airlines-that-have-had-crashes-in-the-past/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\par
\par
\b 2.4 What operations can you do?\par
\b0\par
Ref:\par
\par
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.mathsisfun.com/data/standard-deviation.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.mathsisfun.com/data/standard-deviation.html}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 2.5 Practise modifying code\par
\b0\par
Ref:\par
\par
Grime, J. (n.d.). Non-transitive dice. Singingbanana. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.singingbanana.com/dice/article.htm"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 http://www.singingbanana.com/dice/article.htm}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Grime, J. (2010, August 5). Non-transitive dice [Video]. YouTube. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zWUrwhaqq_c"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zWUrwhaqq_c}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 2.6 Transformations\par
\b0\par
\ul Scaling to values between zero and one\ulnone\par
\par
For this type of transformation, we transform the maximum value to one and the minimum value to zero. All other values are transformed proportionally in between. So, a value halfway between the maximum and minimum values will be transformed to 0.5. Consider the heights (metres) example below, 0.86 is the minimum value and therefore will be transformed to zero. The 2.02 is the maximum value and will, therefore, be transformed into one.\par
\par
height = np.array([0.86,2.02,1.87,1.44,1.80])\par
scaled_height = (height-np.min(height))/(np.max(height)-np.min(height))\par
print(scaled_height)\par
\par
\par
\ul Centring and standardising\ulnone\par
\par
Centring is the process of subtracting the average from each value so that the transformed values have an average of zero. Does that mean they\rquote re now on a polar +/- scale?\par
\par
Standardising is the process of dividing the centred values by the standard deviation so that the transformed values have an average of zero and a standard deviation of one. Standardised values are commonly known as z-scores.\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 2.7 BODMAS\par
\b0\par
Ref:\par
\par
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.python.org/shell/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.python.org/shell/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.tutorialspoint.com/python/operators_precedence_example.htm"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.tutorialspoint.com/python/operators_precedence_example.htm}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 2.8 Representing concepts mathematically\par
\b0\par
Ref:\par
\par
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Helping Engineers Learn Mathematics (HELM). (n.d.). Sets and probability. HELM Workbooks (Content 35). Loughborough University. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://learn.lboro.ac.uk/archive/olmp/olmp_resources/pages/workbooks_1_50_jan2008/Workbook35/35_1_sets.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://learn.lboro.ac.uk/archive/olmp/olmp_resources/pages/workbooks_1_50_jan2008/Workbook35/35_1_sets.pdf}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Henderson, B. (2020). Netpbm homepage. Sourceforge. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Wikipedia. (2020, July 23). Six degrees of Kevin Bacon. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Six_Degrees_of_Kevin_Bacon"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Six_Degrees_of_Kevin_Bacon}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 2.9 What does your data say about you?\par
\b0\par
Ref:\par
\par
Watcher, H. (2016, February 3). The limits of friendship. Experience Life. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://experiencelife.com/article/the-limits-of-friendship/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://experiencelife.com/article/the-limits-of-friendship/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 2.10 Basic plotting\par
\b0\par
\par
Ref:\par
\par
Maths is Fun. (n.d.). Correlation. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.mathsisfun.com/data/correlation.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.mathsisfun.com/data/correlation.html}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Office for National Statistics. (2015). UK population estimates 1851 to 2014. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/populationandmigration/populationestimates/adhocs/004356ukpopulationestimates1851to2014"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/populationandmigration/populationestimates/adhocs/004356ukpopulationestimates1851to2014}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Tukey, J. (1977). Exploratory data analysis. Pearson.\par
\par
WorldOmetre. (2021). Countries in the world by population (2021). {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.worldometers.info/world-population/population-by-country/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.worldometers.info/world-population/population-by-country/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
xkcd. (n.d.). Scientific paper graph quality. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://xkcd.com/1945/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://xkcd.com/1945/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
Further reading:\par
\par
Yordanov, V. (2018, July 22). Data science with Python: Intro to data visualization with Matplotlib. Towards Data Science.  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://towardsdatascience.com/data-science-with-python-intro-to-data-visualization-and-matplotlib-5f799b7c6d82"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://towardsdatascience.com/data-science-with-python-intro-to-data-visualization-and-matplotlib-5f799b7c6d82}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Prabhakaran, S. (n.d.). Top 50 matplotlib visualizations - the master plots (with full Python code). Machine Learning Plus. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.machinelearningplus.com/plots/top-50-matplotlib-visualizations-the-master-plots-python/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.machinelearningplus.com/plots/top-50-matplotlib-visualizations-the-master-plots-python/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 2.12 What can we do with a plot?\par
\b0\par
Of interest:\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.gapminder.org/tools/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.gapminder.org/tools/}}}\f0\fs22\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}The John  Hunter Excellence in Plotting Competition\u8203?\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}200 Countries, 200 Years, 4 Minutes - The Joy of Stats\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
Ref:\par
\par
BBC. (2017, June 7). From swingometers to 3D simulations: A pictorial history of general election TV graphics. The Telegraph. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.telegraph.co.uk/tv/0/history-british-tv-election-graphics-pictures/2015-election-graphics-map/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.telegraph.co.uk/tv/0/history-british-tv-election-graphics-pictures/2015-election-graphics-map/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
BBC Four. (2010, November 26). Hans Rosling\rquote s 200 countries, 200 years, 4 minutes - The joy of stats - BBC Four [Video]. YouTube. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jbkSRLYSojo"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jbkSRLYSojo}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
BBC Visual and Data Journalism. (2019). How the BBC visual and data journalism team works with graphics in R. Medium. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medium.com/bbc-visual-and-data-journalism/how-the-bbc-visual-and-data-journalism-team-works-with-graphics-in-r-ed0b35693535"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://medium.com/bbc-visual-and-data-journalism/how-the-bbc-visual-and-data-journalism-team-works-with-graphics-in-r-ed0b35693535}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Gapminder. (n.d.). Bubbles. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.gapminder.org/tools/#$chart-type=bubbles"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.gapminder.org/tools/#$chart-type=bubbles}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Mason, B. (2017, March 16). The underappreciated man behind the \ldblquote best graphic ever produced\rdblquote . National Geographic. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nationalgeographic.com/news/2017/03/charles-minard-cartography-infographics-history/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.nationalgeographic.com/news/2017/03/charles-minard-cartography-infographics-history/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Matplotlib. (2020). Gallery. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://matplotlib.org/gallery/index.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://matplotlib.org/gallery/index.html}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
SCiPy. (2019). Plotting contest. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.scipy2019.scipy.org/plotting-contest"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.scipy2019.scipy.org/plotting-contest}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Tufte, E. (1983). The visual display of quantitative information. Graphics Press.\par
\par
\par
Further reading:\par
\par
Office for National Statistics. (n.d.). Data visualisation. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://style.ons.gov.uk/category/data-visualisation/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://style.ons.gov.uk/category/data-visualisation/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Jordan, C. (2017, July 7). Make your data speak for itself! Less is more (and people don\rquote t read). Towards Data Science. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://towardsdatascience.com/data-visualization-best-practices-less-is-more-and-people-dont-read-ba41b8f29e7b"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://towardsdatascience.com/data-visualization-best-practices-less-is-more-and-people-dont-read-ba41b8f29e7b}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 2.13 Sense checking sensational statistics\par
\b0\par
Thinking about the \lquote scientist\rquote  part of the data scientist\rquote s skill set, we might say that a good scientist is: objective, independent and curious. Scientists also, however, limit their confidence about the world to what the evidence supports and are prepared to be proven wrong or to be undecided.\par
\par
Statistics are a great tool in the data scientists\rquote  toolbox, but even before learning and applying its methods, we can develop some important habits of mind - common sense, clear thinking and the willingness to dig deeper.\par
\par
It\rquote s really useful to start developing these habits, or rather skills, by looking at data in the world around us. In the news and media every day we see messages backed by science that promote changes in behaviour and habits, from which shampoo to buy, to political and social policies.\par
\par
We can develop our critical statistical thinking by taking a closer look at the \lquote science\rquote  behind such messages and researching the data they are based on. We don\rquote t need to be expert statisticians to get a feeling for how well the evidence supports the claims being made, as there are some key things to look out for:\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Interpretation: Is the \lquote high-level\rquote  interpretation of the evidence (such as a news headline or summary) consistent with what the evidence itself is showing? For instance, does the research tentatively suggest a small effect, which is blown up to be a conclusive fact in the interpretation?\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Representativeness: Has the data collection method (survey or sample) ensured that the result of the research is representative of the overall population that it applies to? Is the sample size large enough? Generally speaking, the minimal sample size is 100, but it really depends on the quality/reliability of the data source.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Alternative explanations: Could there be another way to account for the data that was observed/collected by the researchers but which they don\rquote t seem to have factored in?\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Replication: Has the effect been reproduced in different experiments and studies? Is the claim based on just a single study with a particular setup and location?\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Independence: Has the research been carried out or funded by people with a vested interest in a positive or negative result?\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\par
\par
Ref:\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Bisits Bullen, P. (2013, October 18). How to choose a sample size (for the statistically challenged). Tools4Devs.  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.tools4dev.org/resources/how-to-choose-a-sample-size/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 http://www.tools4dev.org/resources/how-to-choose-a-sample-size/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
Further reading:\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Bock, T. (n.d.). How to calculate minimum sample size for a survey or experiment. Displayr.  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.displayr.com/calculate-minimum-sample-size-survey-experiment/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.displayr.com/calculate-minimum-sample-size-survey-experiment/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Statistical Literacy. (n.d.) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.statlit.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 http://www.statlit.org/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 2.14 Case study: sensationalised data\par
\b0\par
Ref:\par
\par
Mundasad, S. (2017, July 11). Coffee drinkers live longer - perhaps. BBC News. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/health-40567047"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/health-40567047}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
Gunter, M. J., Murphy, N., Cross, A., Dossus, L., Dartois, L., Fagherazzi, G., Kaaks, R., K\'fchn, T., Boeing, H., Aleksandrova, K., Tj\'f8nneland, A., Olsen, A., Overvad, K., Larsen, S. C., Cornejo, M. L. R., Agudo. A., S\'e1nchez P\'e9rez, M. J., Altzibar, J. M., Navarro, C., Ardanaz, E. \'85 Riboli, E. (2017). Coffee drinking and mortality in 10 European countries: A multinational cohort study. Annals of Internal Medicine, 167(4), 236\endash 247. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.7326/M16-2945"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://doi.org/10.7326/M16-2945}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 2.15 Investigating data-based headlines\par
\b0\par
\par
assumptions: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.itl.nist.gov/div898/handbook/eda/section1/eda126.htm"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.itl.nist.gov/div898/handbook/eda/section1/eda126.htm}}}\f0\fs22\par
checking assumptions: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.itl.nist.gov/div898/handbook/ppc/section4/ppc47.htm"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.itl.nist.gov/div898/handbook/ppc/section4/ppc47.htm}}}\f0\fs22\par
t-test: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.statology.org/t-test-assumptions/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.statology.org/t-test-assumptions/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
\b 2.16 How do we design good experiments?\par
\b0\par
While we may have access to lots of existing data, it does not necessarily mean that it will answer the questions we want to ask.\par
\par
Sometimes we will need to go out and collect more data. This can be expensive and time-consuming. This is why it\rquote s important to make sure you have the right experimental design in place before you get started; to make sure you collect the right data and enough of it to answer your questions and avoid some of the possible problems outlined in previous steps.\par
\par
There are some key stages in the experiment design process:\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Have one or more clear and explicit hypotheses generated from a good understanding of the problem. This will help enormously in scoping your design and in turning stakeholders\rquote  questions into testable experiments.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Think about what you are comparing. This is often to assess the effect of a proposed decision or improvement, so, for example, the baseline or current situation may be compared with the improvement. Additionally, consider what else might affect the comparison. Could, for example, the time and place the data is collected or the people in two groups you are comparing differ in important ways? You will need to factor this in.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Think about the best way to collect the data you need. This may be available from enterprise analytics systems or you may need to conduct a survey or design a customised interface to collect it.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Ensure that your sampling \endash  the data you do collect \endash  is representative of the groups you want to say something about.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Think about how much data you will need to be in a position to differentiate any effect from randomness/chance. For example, if a coin flip gives us heads five times in a row, does it mean the coin is biased or is this just normal randomness?\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
A note on randomness. Randomness is really interesting. In practice, it often behaves in unexpected ways and probably explains a lot of findings that we mistake to be due to our own action or skill. As humans, we have evolved with senses that are tuned to recognising patterns quickly (for example, seeing a poisonous snake in the grass), but this means that we also can be fooled into seeing patterns that are not there (in other words, it\rquote s just a random patch of grass that looks a bit like a snake).\par
\par
Further reading:\par
\par
Spiegelhalter, D. (2019). The art of statistics. Pelican. (Only available in hard copy).\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 2.17 Scenario: Hamster welfare\par
\b0\par
By improving an experimental design, you can ensure that the question is answered more carefully. Have a look at the scenario below and think about how the experiment\rquote s design could be improved.\par
\par
\b Scenario\par
\b0\par
You are a novice data scientist working for the charity website \lquote Help the Hamsters\rquote .\par
\par
They want to know how public donations are affected by the photos on the home page, which might be of sad, mistreated hamsters or happy well-treated hamsters. They have a good stock of each and want to rotate so they show a different image each day.\par
\par
The home page includes a donation link, which records information about donations received on different days. They tell us that there are normally around 10 donations on any one day, but this can vary by +/- 3 donations per day. Donations average \'a35 each.\par
\par
The previous data scientist that worked on the project came up with the following plan:\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Hypothesis: Sad hamsters generate more cash.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Comparison: One sad picture with one normal one.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Collection: Get the total sum raised across all the days with each picture showing on rotation.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Three days of data for each image should be enough to answer the hypothesis.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\par
\b Your task\b0\par
There are some potential issues with the plan above.\par
Propose one improvement you would make to the plan and discuss with your fellow learners.\par
\par
\par
\b COMMENT\par
\b0\par
Considering [1] confounding factors, e.g., day of the week, time of the day, public holidays, etc, [2] the limited number of daily visitors, [3] the subjective classification of an image as sad or happy \{one man's food is another man's poison\}.\par
\par
An appropriate design is perhaps an A/B/N test ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.optimizely.com/optimization-glossary/abn-testing/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.optimizely.com/optimization-glossary/abn-testing/}}}\f0\fs22 ).  Whereby the number of images tested each day \endash  N \endash  will be N distinct images; N/2 sad, N/2 happy.  Each day each of the N images will be randomly shown to approximately the same number of unique visitors; for example, if the site has 24 unique visitors today, each image would be seen by 24/N unique visitors.   \par
\par
Due to the limited number of daily visitors N will probably be small, but greater than 2.  And, the experiment will have to be conducted for more than 3 days, until an appropriate sample size is reached/surpassed \endash  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.qualtrics.com/experience-management/research/determine-sample-size/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.qualtrics.com/experience-management/research/determine-sample-size/}}}\f0\fs22 .\par
\par
\par
Sample size:\par
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.displayr.com/calculate-minimum-sample-size-survey-experiment/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.displayr.com/calculate-minimum-sample-size-survey-experiment/}}}\f0\fs22\par
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.surveysystem.com/sscalc.htm"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.surveysystem.com/sscalc.htm}}}\f0\fs22\par
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.qualtrics.com/experience-management/research/determine-sample-size/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.qualtrics.com/experience-management/research/determine-sample-size/}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 2.18 Bias and error in data collection\par
\b0\par
In a statistical sense, bias at the collection stage means that the data you have gathered is not representative of the group or activity you want to say something about.\par
\par
Shortcuts and mistakes of various kinds are part of what makes us human. As the author and psychologist Daniel Levitin (2016) says:\par
\par
Remember, people gather statistics. People choose what to count, and how to go about counting. There are a host of errors and biases that can enter into the collection process and these can lead millions of people to draw the wrong conclusions.\par
\par
Bias and error may be unintentional, but sometimes we know it has happened and ignored for the sake of an easier life.\par
\par
Some common biases or error sources to look out for in your own and others\rquote  work include:\par
\par
\b Sampling\par
\b0\par
An unbiased sampling method should mean that an individual data item within a whole set of items, a list of potential participants in an experiment, for example, could be included. This is why researchers often try to randomise the sampling process or sample randomly from a set of pre-defined groups. If there is some aspect that limits this, you are risking bias.\par
\par
For instance, if we decide to base a study of citizen digital skills on the results of an internet survey, we\rquote re excluding people without internet access, who may be significantly lower in their digital skills level. Therefore, our data is not representative.\par
\par
\b Measuring and calculating\par
\b0\par
Data collected from instruments or digital systems may be prone to error if, for example, a sensor is broken or a log file is corrupted. Often people will incorporate a sense-check that picks up anomalies like these.\par
\par
Similarly, it is easy for the researcher themself to make a simple error in calculation, especially when complex code is used to determine results. This is where open source and open data can help in letting other people reproduce the calculations to check them.\par
\par
\b Participation/responding\par
\b0\par
In an opinion survey, you may be more likely to get participation from those people who have a strong feeling about the subject one way or another. Whereas those who are less opinionated may be less likely to respond. One way to avoid this is to advertise it with a more general theme. For example, you might say your survey is about shopping in general rather than views on Marmite.\par
\par
\b Reporting accuracy\par
\b0\par
People may tell you something about their own behaviour that is different to the way they behave in practice. This is why it is sometimes good to combine spoken reports with behavioural data.\par
\par
It\rquote s important for a data scientist to sharpen their understanding of statistical evidence and the claims or decisions that it may or may not support.\par
\par
\b To sharpen your own understanding\b0 , we recommend you practise spotting biases and errors in your daily life \endash  as you read newspapers, social media and research studies.\par
\par
Going forward, you will gain confidence in designing your own analyses and applying appropriate statistical tests. You\rquote ll also become adept at explaining what the results imply and understanding their limitations or the potential sources of bias that might have been introduced during data collection.\par
\par
\par
\b Your task\par
\b0\par
Have a look at the report Bouncing Back: Consumer Views on Traveling ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://flywire.foleon.com/report/bouncing-back-consumer-views-on-traveling-again/cover/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://flywire.foleon.com/report/bouncing-back-consumer-views-on-traveling-again/cover/}}}\f0\fs22 ) Again which reports on a survey looking at people\rquote s intentions to fly again post-COVID-19.\par
\par
If the report is about all potential consumers, what bias might there be from their sampling strategy?\par
\par
Think about some of the possible issues with bias and error and how the survey could have been presented to the respondents. Share your ideas with your fellow learners in the comments area.\par
\par
\par
\b Further Reading\par
\b0\par
Levitin, D. (2016). A field guide to lies and statistics. Viking. (Only available in hard copy).\par
\par
\par
\b References\par
\b0\par
Flywire. (2020). Bouncing back: Consumer views on travelling again. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://flywire.foleon.com/report/bouncing-back-consumer-views-on-traveling-again/cover/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://flywire.foleon.com/report/bouncing-back-consumer-views-on-traveling-again/cover/}}}\f0\fs22 ?\par
\par
\par
\b COMMENT\par
\b0\par
Considering the survey methodology, printed further below, Flywire drew population wide conclusions from \par
\par
(a)   A dataset that is not representative \'85 Are most travellers frequent travellers?  Are the age limits appropriate? (Retirees enjoy travelling, and tend to be over 65)  Are the sample sizes per country appropriate ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "www.qualtrics.com/blog/calculating-sample-size/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 www.qualtrics.com/blog/calculating-sample-size/}}}\f0\fs22 )?  Is the minimum household income value representative? ETC.\par
\par
(b)   A non-randomised experiment ...  \ldblquote Inferences to populations can be drawn from random sampling studies, but not otherwise.\rdblquote  [The Statistical Sleuth]\par
\par
Survey Methodology: Flywire commissioned Regina Corso Consulting to conduct a survey of frequent pleasure travelers in four countries to understand how they are dealing with the current travel bans amidst COVID-19 disruptions. This survey is among 725 frequent travelers with 400 who are from the United States, 125 who are from the United Kingdom and 100 each from Canada and Japan. All have traveled at least 2 times in the past 12 months for pleasure. Also, all are between 25 and 65 years old and have a household income of at least $75,000. This survey was conducted online between April 15 and 21, 2020.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\b 2.22 Analysing different types of data\par
\b0\par
Ref:\par
World Health Organization. (2020). Contact tracing in the context of COVID-19. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/contact-tracing-in-the-context-of-covid-19"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/contact-tracing-in-the-context-of-covid-19}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 